---
title: Road to v0.4.0
description: What will change or changing already
icon: 'lucide:file'
---

Those "road to" articles are here so I can keep track of small changes and bigger ones occuring as building bricks for the next release. 

No particular order, as they come to mind or gets implemented. Just two main sections, **Done** and **Planed:** with things already here and the ones worked-on. As something planned gets shipped, it will naturally be moved in the section above.

Once v0.4.0 will be out, that article will 

## Done!


### New installer link

At the beginning it was just a Codeberg repository, then Github, so the curl installer link was a "raw content" from some git repo'. It was great for testing and works well indeed, but the link itself was long and verbose.

From that:
```bash
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SherpaBasecamp/sherpa/refs/heads/master/tools/install.sh | bash
``` 

To that:
```bash
bash -c "$(curl -sLo- https://sherpa-cli.netlify.app/install.sh)"
``` 

### Org & Website renamed

Oh, the Github Org was also renamed from SherpaBasecamp to SherpaCLI, shorter and more descriptive. Other than a conceptual analogy, I never intended to actualy organise Anapurna or K1 trips.

The website hosted on the Netlify subdomain got also renamed as _sherpa-cli_, along with a new engine under the hood. Switched from Astro to NuxtJS, and really happy with it so far.

### Shorter alias

The `sh` alias for `sherpa` was interfering with the natural flow when installing software with links via `sh someLink`, so in the new installs it will be just `s`. To rename an existing one, we can open the aliases file with `sherpa aliases` or `aliasman -e` in the default configured editor.

### New Logo version and Favicon

In the move from Astro to Nuxt, I designed a new, minimalist, version of the logo. One of the purposes was to go along with light/dark variants. It represents the Sh:erpa mountain we are climbing and takes the form of a simple black or white vector.

The Favicon is derived from it but recieving the full colors without transparency, so it will work the same on light or dark browser tab.

### README updates

Along the way, some little changes on the README files around the repositories were made.


## Planned:


### Auto-build on source save

Since we're talking WebDev comming to Bash, some sort of "dev server" was a need, so [WatchExec](https://webinstall.dev/watchexec/) will come into play. As it's name imply, that tool can _watch_ for changes in the BashBox directory, and _exec_ the `sherpa build` command in the background, each time we modify and save files.

The new command could be `sherpa watch` or `sherpa w`.

Let it run in a separate terminal tab, do your thing with the partials, and just call your script by it's executable name you defiened in _Sherpa.yaml_. That's it. Like if a `bun run dev` was running. 

PS: watchexec is already added to the installer script. I mean, once I'll push the changes to Netlify, including that post.

### Data CRUD helper

We already have the full set of yaml CRUD available with things like `get_yaml_item "$key" "$file"`. And it's great because universal as long as we provide the full path to a yaml file.

I do appreciate the Eleventy way to work with data files, and we could have a less verbose wrapper for files inside the `data/` folder, because of the predictable patterns.

Instead of:
```bash
file="${ROOT}/data/cat.yaml"

p "Hey $(get_yaml_item "name" "$file")"
```

Something like:
```bash
p "Hey $(dataGet "cat" "name")"
```

...where the first argument is the name of a yaml file in data/ directory, and the second a field name, with the rest of the logic happenning in the dataGet function instead of cluttering our actual script.

### Update the Options file

That poor little thing still saying that 'Comming soon: the Docs website', and all the new commands are obviously not listed.

### Same for the Version partial

Classic oversight. Will be bumped to reflect the current state.

### Docs / Ressources / Articles

Not directly related to the Sh:erpa semver number, other than a common timeframe, but new articles and sections in the docs would be nice around things like: managing options and --flags, Bash learning ressources, some other "how-to".

Template repositories to be used as BashBox starter projects sounds like a good idea. Something we can clone into `$SCD/boxes` customise as a localBox, build and why-not share it with the others.