---
title: Road to v0.5.0
description: What will change or changing already
icon: 'lucide:file'
---

The "Road to" article is here so I can keep track of small changes and bigger ones occuring as building bricks for the next release. 

No particular order, as they come to mind or gets implemented. Just two main sections, **Done** and **Planed:** with things already here and the ones worked-on. As something planned gets shipped, it will naturally be moved in the section above.

Once v0.5.0 will be out, that article will be renamed and vanish into the sunset like Clint Estwood! It will then be known as just v0.5.0

## Done!

Not much on Sh:erpa itself so far, but interesting things around ...and some of them will maybe move into the core libraries later.

### v0.4.1

* The _src/_options__ file now use data from the _Sherpa.yaml_ manifest in the root of our BashBox via the `package` function.

When creating a new BashBox, think about customising things in the `Sherpa.yaml` file, mainly the description field and if applyable, the repo url.

Both are used in the pages generated by commands as: 'scriptName --help' or 'scriptName --version'.

* weatherapi.com

Head to [weatherapi.com](https://weatherapi.com/) to get your own API key, it's Free. Place it in the `$SCD/env.yaml` file.

```yaml [$SCD/env.yaml]
WEATHERAPI_KEY: 4857462MYKEY455465
```

It's a basic integration you can play around with. At first, was made to test the functionality but since it's working, I'll keep it.

As a test, it implements two variables, the location and the actual temperature in Celsius. To use it, just add the library to a BashBox:

```bash [src/lib.sh]
use "api/weather"

main() {
    h1 "Weather Now"
    p "We actually have ${w_temp}°C in ${w_location}."
}
```

You can copy mirror the dir/file from $SDD to $SCD and customise it to your liking ;) it will override the main one.


* The rest is cleanup of leftover useless variables and other unnneccessary and non-breaking things.


### Appwrite & Teable CRUD integration

As separate libraries for now, there are two packages that lets us connect to a remote database on [Appwrite](https://appwrite.io/) or [Teable](https://teable.io/), and perform CRUD operation before displaying the results in the terminal.

This is a foundation for intersting things to come. Little apps with remote database perssistance and the terminal as a browser are getting real.

It works, but I just wan to clean it up a bit before linking the repos.


## Planned:

In addition to little fixes...

### BashORM

Once we have JSON data in a Bash variable, comming from any source, the goal is to filter them with jq and mimic SQL statements. WHERE, LIMIT, ORDER BY, ...

### Communication

It's ann nice, but I need to find ways to let people know about Sh:erpa.

I thought about writing an article on DEV.to or going back to check Reddit as Twitter is limitting my reach because I didn't bought the blue badge.

One way or another, we need people in Discord and playing around with Sh:erpa.