---
title: Road to v0.6.0
description: What will change or changing already
icon: lucide:file
---

-

The "Road to" article is here so I can keep track of small changes and bigger ones occuring as building bricks for the next release.

No particular order, as they come to mind or gets implemented. Just two main sections, **Done** and **Planed:** with things already here and the ones worked-on. As something planned gets shipped, it will naturally be moved in the section above.

Once v0.6.0 will be out, that article will be renamed and vanish into the sunset like Clint Estwood! It will then be known as just v0.6.0

## Done!

I will normally tone it down on the "add new commands" front, as there are already enough to create some neat BashBox and Libs. Testing well enough the existant sounds like a good idea.

### 0.5.1

Custom primaryColor per project or for all local Boxes!

- To set the titles color for all local BashBoxes, the value of `primaryColor` in `SCD/Sherpa.yaml` must be set as one of the following: Black, Red, Green, Yellow, Blue, Magenta, Cyan or White.
- For a specific color per project as Blue, create a mainColor variable, before loading "std/fmt"

```bash
mainColor="Blue"
use "std/fmt"
```

- If any of those are set or the color have a typo in it, the primaryColor will fallback to Green.

### 0.5.2 Env helper

For some reason, the `env.yaml` helper was no more here, so I added it back. It's a convenient way to extract varibles from the `$SCD/env.yaml` file.

```yaml [$SCD/env.yaml]
SOME_KEY: fake5dsijfujp5key
```

then...

```bash
SOME_KEY=$(env "SOME_KEY")
```

This will look for a `SOME_KEY` variable in the `$SCD/env.yaml` file and assign it to the variable `SOME_KEY`.

### 0.5.3 Dashboard message if Updates available

A message will be shown on the Dashboard, If a new version of S\:erpa was pushed to Github. That way, the bash hikers can check the Changelogs before getting the shiny new thing with `sherpa self-update`.

### 0.5.5 Docs Generation Revisited

Yes, I jumped over a patch number, but at that point it doesn't matter :)

Docs are now generated exclusivelly with [shdoc](https://github.com/reconquest/shdoc) for consistency and ease of documentation/adoption.

The Main documentation bloc for a BashBox is expected to be in the `src/_global.sh` file, and the basic example was addes to the template.

The `sherpa doc` command was also modified to support subfolders inside `src/`.

### Some binStarter template fixes

As the documentation page header is generated from `src/_global.sh`, the duplicated `# @file myScript` line was removed from `src/_options.sh`.

Then, the `src/_lib.sh` file needs to end with an empty line, in order to prevent code collision during the minification happening at build time.

*...not much, but needed to be done.*

## Planned

Side things like Communication and Sh\:erpa Packages Registry


*...note: If you notice anything weir, it's maybe because I'm testing NuxtStudio and figuring it out along the way.*.
