---
title: Cargo-like workflow
description: From Crate to BashBox
icon: lucide:boxes
---

If you know Cargo, Sh:erpa is mimicking things like Cargo new, build, doc, test...

## Creating a BashBox

```bash
# Create a new BashBox
sherpa new myScript
```

Running `sherpa new myScript` will create a new BashBox (think Crate) `myScript` in ${SCD}, initialize a git repo inside and copy over the starter template.


```bash
# /home/user/sherpa/boxes/myScript

.
├── data
│   └── example.yaml
├── docs
│   └── myScript.md
├── README.md
├── Sherpa.yaml
├── src
│   ├── bin.sh
│   ├── _globals.sh
│   ├── _header.sh
│   ├── _lib.sh
│   ├── _options.sh
│   └── __paths.txt
├── target
│   └── local
│       └── myScript
└── tests
    └── example_test.sh
```

Both `run` and `build` commands are creating a symlink between the builtScript stored in target/local/myScript and a virtual file in .sherpa/bin, so for all the tests involving arguments you can use myScript arg1 arg2. The `compile` command can transform the executable into a binary.

```bash[/home/user/sherpa/boxes/myScript]
# Upon BashBox creation it will:
sherpa build

# so you can already go:
myScript arg1 arg2
```

## Sherpa.yaml Manifest

As expected, that file contains the metadata for the package. 

```yaml
package:
  title: myScript
  description: A short description of the package
  version: 0.1.0
  author: AndiKod
  license: MIT
```
Eventually, at some point a second section could be added, once I'll figure out a way to integrate per-project dependencies and a sort of _lock_ file.

## Sourcing libraries

For the pleasure of it, additional libraries are sourced with:

```bash
# /home/user/sherpa/boxes/myScript/src/bin.sh

use "std/fmt"
```
This would first look for a `lib/std/fmt.sh` file in the SherpaCustomDir, the user customised libraries, and if not there default to the version in the main SherpaDotDir.

## The rest of the commands

So far, the Cargo commands ported to Sh:erpa are: new, init, build, run, doc, test, install, uninstall and looking for ways to bring in the rest.

Some complementary commands, Sh:erpa specific alre completing the toolbox.