---
title: Pug-like Semantics
description: Let the text have a purpose
icon: lucide:paw-print
---

Just because we are "printing text" in a terminal window, it doesn't mean that it have no meaning or purpose. Using some Pug inspired syntax, we can structure the output:

```bash[..src/bin.sh]
use "std/fmt"

main() {
  h1 "I'm a bold, txtPrimary colored Title"
  hr "+" "-" # Fill the screen as ----+----
  text-center "Some centered text"
  br
  h2 "Normal, txtPrimary h2 Title"
  p "Some ${em}italic${x} text."
  br
  h3 "Like h2, but italic Title"
  p "${btnSuccess} Done! ${x} Well played."
  br
  em "check lib/std/fmt.sh"
}

# Load the main fn if no arguments
[[ "$#" == 0 ]] && main; exit 0
```

When writing some content that will be displayed in the terminal just like a webpage would do via Lynx or w3m browser, it could be nice to have an idea of the puprose of each line.

::alert{type="info" icon="lucide:info"}
  In it's simplest form, a BashBox can even act like a terminal-based Blog.

  Imagine a BashBox producing the script `JoeBlog` with a route `Good news`. Once installed, the command `JoeBlog "Good news"` would print the actual content / article. At each update, a new route can be added, and listed on the homepage (no arguments) so we could read it via `JoeBlog "One more"`.
::


There are so far 8 tags, 8 text colors, 8 background colors and 4 font styles, plus some functions that we can mix toger to compose our output. See the reference section about functions and variables.

### Custom styles via variables

In some custom library inside the SherpaCustomDir, we can go:

```bash
# lib/bob/style.sh

link="${txtBlue}${u}${em}"
```

then import the styles and use them:


```bash
# someBashBox/src/bin.sh

use "bob/style"

main() {
  # The url is now blue, underlined & italic
  p "Visit ${link}https://acme.com${x}" now!
}
```
Basically, `${link}` apply the formating, that last until the first `${x}` that normalize back the output. You can also use directly txt/bg/fontStyles combinations but it's convenient to have repeating pattern loaded like "css classes".

This would work too, without importing custom styles:


```bash
# someBashBox/src/bin.sh

use "std/fmt"

main() {
  # Make it bold & red to stand out.
  p "Here, some ${strong}${txtRed}BIG BOY${x} text."
}
```