---
title: Installing a BashBox
description: The BashBoxRegistry in the making
icon: lucide:arrow-big-down
---

The center of everything great is the ability to share and mutualize what we are creating, building that way something ...together.

Each BashBox that we are publishing on a git platform, library or executable script can be installed with one command by other Bash hikers from the Sh:erpa community and enjoy it or using it to build another BashBox.

## Installing a BashBox Script

There will be a shorter form at some point later, in a form such as `sh install boxName`, but until then we can already install BashBoxes using three flags. `-n` with a short name that will be used in commands like `sh uninstall <boxName>`, `-t` for Type _(bin or lib)_ defaulting to 'bin', and finally `-u` with the repository's URL from where we'll clone the source.

```bash
sherpa install -n "fromSource" -u "https://github.com/user/repo"
```

This will clone the BashBox inside `${SCD}/bbr/bin`, move inside and run `sherpa build`. The script will be built from the files in `src/`, saved in `target/local/` and symlinked to `~/.sherpa/bin`. Ready to be invoked and used via the `fromSource` command.

When running `sh` for the Dashboard recap, it will be listes as a Remote box, with it's name and the executable name we can now call directly.

```bash
fromSource
```

## Installing a BashBox Library

As the `-t` flag defaults to _bin_, this time we'll need to specify it, with a value of _lib_. That way, Sh:erpa will treat the content of that repository differently, as it doesn't need a build-step.

```bash
sherpa install -n "icons" -t "lib" -u "https://github.com/user/repo"
```
This will clone the repository, place it inside the `${SCD}/bbr/lib` directory and create a symlink into the `${SCD}/lib` directory, where Sh:erpa is looking for libraries to load.

We can now use that new ressource as per usual:

```bash
# some/BashBox/src/bin.sh

use "icons/FontAwesome"

main() {
  h1 "${icoStar} Awesome Title"
}
```

## Removing a Box or a Lib

If for any good reason you need to uninstall something you get from git, just run the uninstall command.

```bash
# /from/anywhere

# Remove a remote BashBox
sherpa uninstall <boxName>
```
This command will remove the directories, symplinks and registers entries.


## BBR, the BashBoxRegistry

If great pieces of code or fun little things are scattered around the git platforms and making it difficult to find/browse, it would be a wasteful of opportunities.

To organize discoverability and facilitate the building-up of the BashBoxes eco system, we will find a way to regroup/promote those projects and implement a `sherpa search` or just a listing to begin with. Our little "crates" directory.

## Some BashBoxes examples

Projects that can be used, play-with or serve as a template to make your own ones. If you have one, feel free to porpose it for inclusion on that list:

- [PacaMan](https://github.com/AndiKod/pacaman-bashbox): 
List PackageManagers, dirs and --global packages.
- [AskAI](https://github.com/AndiKod/AskAI-bashbox): 
Sending a search query to PerplexityAI, from the terminal.
- [Appwrite CRUD](https://github.com/AndiKod/appwrite-bashbox): 
Demo of a CLI Appwrite CRUD implementation.
- [Appwrite Lib](https://github.com/AndiKod/appwrite-bashlib): The library used in the Appwrite CRUD Bashbox.

